Ab#2548 custom query guide (#169)
JupiterOne/docs: queries/adv-j1ql-tips-and-tricks.md

```j1ql
Find User that HAS UserGroup that ASSIGNED AccessRole that (ALLOWS|TRUSTS) Account WITH tag.Production=true
```

![j1ql-custom-query-with-example](../assets/j1ql-custom-query-with-example.png)

This query filters all the Account nodes down to just those with a Production
tag before the query sees if there are AccessRole(s) connected. The query will
then join any connected UserGroup(s), and finally any User(s) part of the
UserGroup(s).

### WHERE

1. `WHERE` is used to filter entity **node** properties **post-traversal**.

Let's continue with the previous `WITH` example.

```j1ql
Find User as u1 that HAS UserGroup that ASSIGNED AccessRole that ASSIGNED User as u2 WHERE u1.name=u2.name
```

![j1ql-custom-query-where-example](../assets/j1ql-custom-query-where-example.png)

This query will first find every User that is part of a UserGroup that is
assigned an AccessRole that is assigned a User. Once the results have been been
retrieved, the query will take both Users that were assigned an alias (u1 and
u2), and compare the name property on each. If they match, the filtered result
will be returned.

**TIP** Node comparisons in this example can only be done using `WHERE`.

> 2. `WHERE` can also be used to filter the relationship **edge** properties **post-traversal**.

Author: Removed "be" from your suggestion.

Before you jump in, check out the [Data Model - Overview](https://support.jupiterone.io/hc/en-us/articles/360022903573-Data-Model-Overview)
document for a comprehensive list of JupiterOne entities, their properties, and the relationships between entities. 
The graph is a tool that can be used when these details are unknown.

When traversing the graph from a starting node, you will be able to see and
expand every related node. For a comprehensive list of all entities and
relationships for a specific integration, see the corresponding [Integration Guide](https://support.jupiterone.io/hc/en-us/sections/360004247473-Integrations).

**TIP** When you are in doubt about which verb to use to traverse an edge, use
the catch-all verb `RELATES TO`, which graphs out related entities and the
relationships between them. However, you should not use `RELATES TO` in your
final/saved query because the query will run slow having to check all nodes as
possible children instead of just those connected by a specific edge verb. See
the following example.

```j1ql
Find User that RELATES TO *
```

### In the JupiterOne App

1. To start, navigate to the Landing page of JupiterOne and type in a basic query,

> replacing `DataStore` with the entity class/type you are interested in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the example below, replace `DataStore` with the entity class/type you are interested in.
```

4. Click on the queried entity and you will see the relationship verbs for each
   mapped entity.

![j1ql-custom-query-graph-relationships](../assets/j1ql-custom-query-graph-relationships.png)

5. The type & class of a node can be determined by by selecting the node,
   clicking the info icon, and looking under the display name.

![j1ql-custom-query-class-and-type](../assets/j1ql-custom-query-class-and-type.png)

The `Developer` node from in the example screenshot has a type of `aws_iam_role`
and a class of `AccessRole`. We know the following relationships exist for a
User class.

- A User is ASSIGNED an AccessRole
- A User IS a Person
- A User HAS a UserGroup
- A User is ASSIGNED an Application

These relationships can be used to craft queries.

```j1ql
Find User that ASSIGNED AccessRole
Find User that IS Person
Find User that HAS UserGroup
Find User that ASSIGNED Application
```

**TIP** Relationships can be queried bidirectionally. For example, `Find User
that HAS UserGroup` can also be queried as `Find UserGroup that HAS User` and will
return the same results in the graph. However, the list view will return a list

> of either `User` or `UserGroup` depending on which entity you `Find`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of `User` for the former or `UserGroup` for the latter depending on which entity you `Find`.
```

u2), and compare the name property on each. If they match, the filtered result
will be returned.

**TIP** Property comparisons can only be done using `WHERE`.

2. `WHERE` is also used to filter the relationship **edge** properties **post-traversal**.

Let's look at a different example with an edge that has properties.

```j1ql
Find Training as t that ASSIGNED as enrollment User as u WHERE enrollment.completedOn = undefined
```

![j1ql-custom-query-incomplete-trainings](../assets/j1ql-custom-query-incomplete-trainings.png)

This query checks the edge, `ASSIGNED`, and filters on its properties. In this
example we find trainings assigned to Users where the `completedOn` date is
undefined (or incomplete).

**REMINDER** Use `WITH` over `WHERE` when possible as the `WITH` operation is faster
and more efficient.

## Variable Placeholders

A variable placeholder(s) is used in the JupiterOne web application to prompt a
user for a specific value(s) to be injected into a pre-saved query. Variable
placeholders can be leveraged in saved J1QL queries using the double curly bracket syntax
`{{variable-placeholder-name}}`.

Take the following pre-saved query as an example.

> ```j1ql

Reviewer: Let's replace this code block with an image of where this query is saved in the Query Library with the mouseover buttons visible

Find aws_instance with instanceId='{{instance-id}}'
```

Running the above query displays a modal that prompts the user to enter a value.
The query will not execute until you enter a value and press the submit button.

![j1ql-custom-query-placeholder](../assets/j1ql-custom-query-placeholder.png)

### Create a Question that uses a Placeholder

> The placeholder double curly bracket syntax cannot be used in the search bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Variable placeholder syntax cannot be used directly in the search bar.
```

There are two ways to create a new question and add a variable placeholder.

1. Save a New Question

- Type a query into the search bar and enter a *temporary* value
- Click the star icon to save
- Type in a Title that describes the query (this is the question name)
- Edit the query, replacing the temporary value with `{{your variable placeholder name here}}`
- Click **Save**

![j1ql-custom-query-save](../assets/j1ql-custom-query-save.png)

2. Duplicate an Existing Question

- Click on the Library icon
- Find an existing question with query elements similar to your new query  
- Click on the Duplicate icon
- Update the Title
- Update the existing query and add `{{your variable placeholder name here}}`
- Click **Save**

![j1ql-custom-query-library](../assets/j1ql-custom-query-library.png)
![j1ql-custom-query-duplicate](../assets/j1ql-custom-query-duplicate.png)

> **REMINDER**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**TIPS**
```

> - One or more placeholders can be used in a single saved query.

Reviewer: let's switch the order of these bullets
